How to create clusters with integrated storage, TLS, and dynamic nodes (#10865)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/concepts/integrated-storage.mdx

```

## Integrated Storage and TLS

We've glossed over some details in the above sections on bootstrapping clusters.
The instructions are sufficient for most cases, but some users have run into
problems when using auto-join and TLS in conjunction with things like auto-scaling.
The issue is that go-discover on most platforms returns IPs (not hostnames), and
because the IPs aren't knowable in advance, the TLS certificates used to secure
the Vault API port don't contain these IPs in their IP SANs.

### Vault networking recap

Before we explore solutions to this problem, let's recapitulate how Vault nodes
speak to one another.

Vault exposes two TCP ports: the API port and the cluster port.

The API port is where clients send their Vault HTTP requests.

For a single-node Vault cluster you don't worry about a cluster port as it won't be used.

When you have multiple nodes you also need a cluster port.  This is used by Vault
nodes to issue RPCs to one another, e.g. to forward requests from a standby node
to the active node, or when Raft is in use, to handle leader election and
replication of stored data.

The cluster port is secured using a TLS certificate that the Vault active node

> generates at startup.  It's clear how this can work when not using integrated

Reviewer: The TLS information used for the raft server has a different lifecycle than the request forwarding server. Raft TLS isn't refreshed on startup, it's generated on vault init and then rotated on a cadence. To generalize a bit more:

```suggestion
generates internally.  It's clear how this can work when not using integrated
```

Author: Done.

cluster has been formed, but we're trying to form the raft cluster!  To solve
this problem, a Vault node must speak to another Vault node using the API port
instead of the cluster port.  This is currently the only situation in which
OSS Vault does this (Vault Enterprise also does something similar when setting
up replication.)

* node2 wants to join the cluster, so issues challenge API request to existing member node1
* node1 replies to challenge request with (1) an encrypted random UUID and (2) seal config
* node2 must decrypt UUID using seal; if using auto-unseal can do it directly, if using shamir must wait for user to provide enough unseal keys to perform decryption
* node2 sends decrypted UUID back to node1 using answer API
* node1 sees node2 can be trusted (since it has seal access) and replies with a bootstrap package which includes the cluster TLS certificate and private key
* node2 gets sent a raft snapshot over the cluster port

After this procedure the new node will never again send traffic to the API port.
All subsequent inter-node communication will use the cluster port.

![Raft Join Process](/img/raft-join-detailed.png)

### Assisted raft join techniques

> The simplest but least desirable solution is to do it by hand: issue raft join

Reviewer: Least desirable is subjective here. Can we either leave it at "simplest" or explicitly state the drawbacks?

Author: Done.

commands specifying the explicit names or IPs of the nodes to join to.  In this
section we look at other TLS-compatible options that lend themselves more to automation.

#### Autojoin with TLS servername

As of Vault 1.6.2, the simplest option might be to specify a leader_tls_servername
in the retry_join stanza which matches a DNS SAN in the certificate.

Note that names in a certificate's DNS SAN don't actually have to be registered
in a DNS server.  Your nodes may have no names found in DNS, while still
using certificate(s) that contain this shared "servername" in their DNS SANs.

#### Autojoin but constrain CIDR, list all possible IPs in certificate

If all the vault node IPs are assigned from a small subnet, e.g. a /28, it
becomes practical to put all the IPs that exist in that subnet into the IP SANs
of the TLS certificate the nodes will share.

The drawback here is that the cluster may someday outgrow the CIDR and changing
it may be a pain.  For similar reasons this solution may be impractical when
using non-voting nodes and dynamically scaling clusters.

> #### Autojoin using a second TCP listener

Reviewer: This one is insecure, let's not even mention it as an option

Author: Removed.

Vault nodes, and there's no need for auto-join: we can just use retry_join
with the LB address as the target.

One potential issue here: some users want a public facing LB for clients to
connect to Vault, but aren't comfortable with Vault internal traffic
egressing from the internal network it normally runs on.

#### DNS instead of autojoin

One proposal for making autojoin work in AWS is to have Vault reverse resolve
the IP addresses coming from go-discover and join to the resulting hostname
instead.  However, if the user is willing and able to configure DNS for each
Vault node (or is using Consul service registration), we can use DNS instead
of autojoin, as with the LB case.  In this case the retry_join target address
becomes the A record that maps to all Vault nodes.

Downsides: Not everyone uses DNS.  Not known to have been tested.  If not using
Consul for DNS, it feels like it could be slow, because we'd presumably be
round-robining across all nodes, and at the outset it may take time before we
actually reach a node that can be joined with.  Presumably in the LB and Consul
cases health checks would ensure that we don't get routed to a node that can't

> be joined with, those we should validate that.

Reviewer: Should we either validate this or remove it for now?

Author: Removed.
